title  of this video is a clean day to chin
just  in a kind of casual
one  figure in that history
tremendous
napoleon  the
despite  his name the polling third really he is the second not the third important
footsore  napoleon the third is
one  of the most important and the most overlooked
historical  figures in the history of the world not just france the whole
world  going to make this video briefly to break down three with
i  want
a  tendency in the writing promotion inception of his
to  focus almost
i
extreme  leaders
flashing
so  contracting parties into clear relief
what  i mean by that
if  you're going to teach a high school history course for the most part what those courses for
people  like to hitler and joseph's salon
unconscious
people  were designed in these courses
on  to
extreme  figures extreme stereotype
and  moments of calm
constance  al history more than they reveal it but i guess they give
a  kind of pleasing more to the story for the students in the
now  i know by contrast with any one of those historical period
there  is no interest in presenting the
a  selection
typical  leaders of
let  germany before after during
you  know these kind of flash point
well  you know what was the sense even of a tipple typical member of parliament you know somebody
wasn't  the number one leader but a contending voice who was making a moderate proposals
for  some kind of meal
same  way i think now the point the thirds importance is for
because  of his mediocrity but mediocrity is not incompatible
with  tremendous historical significance
maybe  just the contrary may be actually it's the mediocre
who  really make history of this
to  the extraordinary ones not the
he  wore one
part  of the pole in the thirds extraordinary signs
be  inspirational effect he
on  people like carl mark
and  what i say people like all marks i don't just mean calmar i mean all the people
in  the history of europe especially in the century following after their career on
all  the people who sat down and wrote a book
at
popularity  and influence of their book would catapult them into a position
of  real political
because  that is exactly what happened to napoleon the third it's a little bit too easy
to  tell the story as a mule did as this the point the third
was  born into
was  not
napoleon  the third rise to power was one hundred per cent because of a book here
and  the book very significantly
i  called
section  of paper
you  might see the title smoothed over in something more like the end of poverty
here  the end of vagrants
but  what i see mostly using
the  extinction of paper
now  again imagine you're a young calmar
you  look at this
here's  this guy
he  led a series of field attempts at cotata failed with him at revolution
those  went nowhere those accomplished nothing for
they  came nothing except the garden put in prison
that's  one lesson for young calmar for any young aspiring politician of
you  know you get a bunch of guys with guns in the streets you end up getting killed or put in prison that's less
than  the one less they were to his once this guy was in prison
what  did he do the point the third was sent to a prison that had an extraordinarily good library
he  sat down in the library and he wrote a book that was the
and  it medium into a major politician he ends up getting elected in history
proceeds
now  this book of
to  some extent it's an area
popular
the  quality of the research and writing
but  the book is primarily popular
because  it tells people something that want here and this is also sousing clark the example
is  clark went on to be a very neat
right  even in china even in india even
in  mexico all over the world far beyond france
got  a realized hallmarks also response to this
negative
so  how does the point the third get himself at a jail and catapulted himself from
obscure
to  one of the most powerful political
promise
going  to help the
and  does this on the basis of a kind of tradition
common
that  goes back to aristotle
goes  back to a school of economics and philosophy called the
nobody  talks about there's another kind of mediocre political
forgotten  it's not as extreme
stabling  or belittle so i just kind of gets left out of the high school
down  the
that's  unfortunate maybe we could learn more by studying the history of some of the
down  to earth reformers
succeeded  in those who failed rather than only studying the most
what  threatening to someone like coarse negative lesson he's learning
napoleon  the third is ultimately offering a completely non revolutionary
way
he
saying  he
i  had this real simple
if  you want the poor to not be poor
the  land
take  people who are now papers and a
revolutionary  rabble rouser
people  who have just become unemployed because somebody closed down a factory a closed down a mine
where  it in
you  give them and they become farmers
maybe  they own a small workshop on that land or seeing
kind  of product
i  give the land be become land owners and then of course they become committed members
the
become  positive productive numbers of
they  no longer want to lead a revolution and terence to care comparisons
of  this mark and a whole generation delectability is think
fantasy  about writing a hit book
and  ending up being the most powerful person in europe one of the most
that  fantasy feels the
the  fantasy of helping the poor
in  a way that would preserve the establishment and the status quo that they
don't  like at all and i would put here a performer the assertion
the  water reasons at colmar committed to this ludicrously pessimistic
view  of his
any  violence would
only  revolution works there was no point having the aristocrat
the  poor
precisely  that what louis
louie  poleon
not  as naboth whatever one
the  boy the third he represented precisely a kind of aristocracy
helping  the poor but that was exactly the combination that was the public
policy  promise
catapulted  napoleon the third from obscurity into political power
came  mark's ideology ultimately was the product of a process
free  market competition
he  be the last person to admit it if you read mark's work you can see there's an earlier
stage  where he is competing with runabout and his competing with master
and  that's how he meets angles and they publish a book together called the holy family believe it not
ancamares  witnesses the success in his time of unnamed
taboor  or a business
that  book is a smash her
and  for both goes from poverty and obscurity to be like a household name his book
was  such
his  wives were sitting around and discussing over the dial and call marks he
me  too he wants to jump on their bent by far i think the single most
important  influence on color
positively  and negatively
is  looking at the example of the rise to
napoleon  the
here's  an example of
play  a game with
who  wrote a book about policy
promising
ay  returned the poor lifted
into  a post
that  was camarista
that  is the man
a  great many
struggling  struggling impoverished